Hello this is Carol from for export dot com.
And this is the second tutorial in our series of em kill for tutorials for complete beginners.
And today we're going to be talking about variables.
Just before we started I wanted to quickly say that if you've gotten this far you are doing a great
job and just don't get put off if you find that you not being able to understand everything in this
tutorial tutorial right away and that's fine that that's absolutely normal and especially if this is
the first programming language you learn.
And it's because programming languages are not simple to understand right away.
But as you practice more and more and you write more bits of code the knowledge will kind of sink in
and make more sense.
So basically practice make practice makes perfect.
And I'm always here to help you out if you if you get stuck.
Now moving on to my own two variables there are many different types of variables in them kill for but
we will start by focusing on six of them six main ones.
And I'm going to be using the code that we started last time in our previous tutorial.
All all I did was as you can see here story of one to foster one tutorial too.
Well I did was in tutorial when I clicked File Save As and I saved it as tutorial too.
And I changed this one over here to two.
And that kind of allows us to say the previous one and start working in tutorial too.
All right.
So what we're going to do is we're going to move this down just a few new lines by clicking enter.
Also I'm going to extend this window because I find it easier to work like this.
And so variables variables are like boxes and boxes were into which you can put some some sort of data
for storage.
For example we can have a integer box which is declared or created by using the word int and then we
type in the name of the box say here will say my integer 1 and then we have to put a semi-colon on and
a semicolon kind of completes an operation and turns this line into like an executable line.
And so basically my integer is a variable or box which can store in a value an integer value.
That means that it can store any other values it can store a piece of text or store a color or anything
else but it can store an integer.
So how do we put an integer in there.
Well it's pretty simple.
All we have to do is we go by integer one he calls and then we put in an integer value say for example
we want to put a 5 in there and that's how we store integers in in this variable.
Now in order to check that this variable has been recorded properly.
We can print what this this got.
The variable is actually what we can print its value and to do that.
We're going to use this alert and we're going we're going to get rid of this hello world part.
Or actually even better are we going to practice using common So we're just going to comment this line
by putting two slashes.
You can see it's turn gray that means it won't be executed anymore.
And we're going to add an alert.
You're going to say alert as last time.
Brackets semicolon and inside it were followed in the quotation marks.
We just going to copy the name of this variable my teacher wanted to make this bit prettier
and so alert mind teacher one should print the value of my teacher one.
So we're going to compile.
They're going to go back to the terminal.
That's from our last Tauriel.
Here we see each Tauriel to drag and drop.
And as you can see we've got a new message saying 5.
Perfect.
Now we'll go back to our
code and we'll create a new variable.
When and this time we'll create a different variable.
This one will be a double double in programming is a variable which can store a decimal point.
So we're going to format this.
OK.
So my double one and we're going to give my double one of value and say we're going to get a value of
ten point fifty six semi-colon and let's print my double one value and we'll do it in a similar fashion
one.
All right.
And compile.
So we're going to compile we're going to go to the terminal and we're going to drag and drop as you
can see we've got two messages now.
A five and ten point fifty six which is great.
Now we'll go back to the program and let's look at what other types of variables we can have we can
have a string of something that will be useful in the future.
My strong one then we can have
boolean type of variables which are declared as bull.
This is mind boggling.
And one thing we can have white collar type
or so.
And please notice that you spell it in the American way.
Color for you.
And the last time is the time my dear one.
All right.
So let's try giving these a few values for example we'll give my string.
And you can see him cowhorse quite smart very prompting us to choose this variable.
And that kind of says tired from typing enter my string 1 and then here you can give a string as you
remember from previous Turrell strings are have to be in quotation marks.
So here you can specify a string like you find a cure all and my boolean one it can be a true or false
value.
So true for example.
And yet we're not going to worry about color and date time at this stage.
We'll just stop them.
These so called alert that alert here will put in my string in my bill and we'll compile that and see
how it runs.
We've got two warnings saying that these variables are not used and that's fine we'll just comment these
out because we're not using them at this stage just compile that no errors no warnings.
And hopefully we should see four messages this time.
Go to the terminal drag and drop to Tauriel turn.
And here we can see.
So that was the end of our last message.
You can see based on time and then this time we got four messages and we got five ten point fifty six.
My name is Carol and true.
So basically that's how you create and use variables.
Don't forget to flip it.
Think of them as boxes of different types.
So each box can only store variables of its own type and certain values of it's on time.
And that's all for today.
Have a play around with that and the source code is available will be available on.
For example dog home and until the next tutorial at decoding.